alzer's senior political analyst Maran
Bashar is here in the studio with us uh
we heard there from the Arab councils
talking just a little bit earlier at the
United Nations is there much chance of
this new UN resolution passing given
what we've seen in the past when it
comes to uh the US
votes well this is it I mean given what
we've seen in the past and depending of
course on the text of the new resolution
but if the draft resolution
speaks of a permanent ceasefire it will
be rejected vetoed by the United
States one American official after
another American official have made it
clear over the past several days weeks
and months that they reject the idea the
principle of a permanent ceasefire to
translate that into
English they want the war to continue
there will be no stop of the war except
a temporary one what the United States
supports if at all would be uh pauses
long pauses sustained pauses they can
have all kinds of words and adjectives
being used being thrown about all to
underline the fact that Israel can
continue the war after those whatever
you want to call them sustained short
whatever they are humanitarian pauses
end they could be for a few days they
could be for few weeks but the United
States supports the nanaho government's
goal of finishing Gaza and taking full
control of it at least for the
intermediate run this links very nicely
to my next question because we heard
today from the Palestinian president
Mahmud abas uh saying urging Hamas to
reach a truce the word he used was truce
what why is that notable that he used
the word truce rather than a permanent
ceasefire just few minutes ago I think
or an hour ago uh un National Security
adviser Jake Sullivan
praised the Palestinian leader for his
generosity in support of the American
position so you can imagine that abbas's
appeal to Hamas not to Israel not to the
United States but to Hamas means that
also the authorities giving up on the
permanent ceasefire while its Ambassador
at the United Nation is asking for a
permanent ceasefire but in reality
speeding up asking Hamas to speed up the
process it basically telling it to drop
the idea of a permanent ceas fire that's
been demanding all along which the
United States and Israel has have
rejected all along now just to be clear
and this is by the way very clever it's
very complicated but we're going to try
to simplify it in less than a minute
it's hugely important what the United
States wants to do and apparently what
president Abbas is on board with is that
there will be no ceasefire there will be
pauses and more pauses during those
pauses and fighting there will be
negotiations over not just a permanent
ceasefire but a permanent ceasefire that
leads to a permanent solution which
means moving forward you can imagine a
scenario whereby Israel occupies Gaza
and for Israel to stop the fighting and
withdraw from Gaza Saudi Arabia for
example would have to normalize
relations with Israel the Palestinian
Authority or the PLO will have to accept
half a state on half of the West Bank in
return for a permanent ceasefire so the
Biden Administration in a
clever genius
dangerous way is basically saying we're
going to continue with this fight we're
going to have few pauses to negotiate
under pressure with the Palestinians and
the Arabs so for all of them to
guarantee Israel's security once again
and to accept Israel's political
conditions once again whereby the
Palestinians would happily live in a
half a state on half of the West Bank
recognized by Saudi Arabia which
normalizes relations with Israel
and guarantees along with other Arab
countries Israel security it's a
disaster unfolding in Far of our eyes
stay with us Maran because Al jazer did
interview uh a member of fata a little
earlier today just on this issue Jamal
nazal is a spokesperson for the fata
movement he defended those comments by
Palestinian president Mahmud Abbas that
Hamas must reach a captives for prisoner
swap agreement with
Israel he wants a ceas fire to be
reached he wants a prisoner swap to take
place also because the families of the
prisoners are waiting the Palestinian
people are suffering facing starvation
diseases and lethal attacks by Israel if
you are the elected president of a
people you have every right to speak out
uh to speak out and call on everyone who
is delaying and we think that Israel is
using delaying tactics the honest is on
Israel the burden of proof is on Israel
Israel has to deliver and it should not
should stop using all these excuses
which we do not believe in it's an
Israel's hand and also all the parties
concerned uh who are negotiating have to
reach an agreement so that our people
can get into the month of Ramadan in
peace your reaction to What Jamal nazal
had to say well I mean certainly
everyone wants peace and security and
love and Valentine every day of the year
we would love a valentine every day of
the year but that's not what's happening
unfortunately and pressing Hamas to
reach a deal now means that it's not
going to be a permanent ceasefire which
means after Ramadan Israel will go back
and kill more and more and more
Palestinian children and occupy more and
more parts of Gaza and bomb more
hospitals and so on so forth there seems
to be uh and I'm going to go on a limb
to say that that there are different
Palestinian spokesperson now around the
palan authority it's ambassadors at
thean here and there and and
spokesperson of fat the men uh faction
saying different things a lot of them
are you know positive and and uh you
know wonderful and loving and so on so
forth but the palan Authority Under the
presidency of Abbas and his Deputy
today are basically working with the
Americans in order to reach a
deal in order for them to be taken
control Ro on part of the West Bank a
bit of Gaza on the long term but
basically under Israel's control okay
alera senior political analyst Marwan
Bashar good to get your thoughts
again